Welcome to JW Broadcasting.
In this month's program, we'll see how Jehovah shepherds us
through any challenge.
Here are some highlights of what's ahead.
In the exciting conclusion to Luda's story,
she must overcome her fears to make a stand for God's Kingdom.
Where can we find the strength to make needed changes?
A highly trained soldier tells us why he decided to leave the military
after learning the truth.
And our music video reminds us that joy and peace are possible now
as we wait for the real life to come.
This is the May 2024 edition of JW Broadcasting.
What do you see when you look at this picture?
Do you see yourself in it?
You should, but why?
This picture helps us to visualize the beautiful description
of Jehovah, founded Isaiah 40, verse 11.
Like a shepherd, he will care for his flock.
With his arm, he will gather to gather the lambs.
And in his bosom, he will carry them.
He will gently lead those nursing their young.
Jehovah bears many titles in the Bible,
but the designation shepherd is among the most tender.
Like a shepherd, Jehovah says he will carry his lambs in his bosom,
illustrating his tender love and care for each one of his precious sheep.
Look again at the picture.
Is it hard for you to see yourself as a lamb nestled in the bosom of our shepherd Jehovah?
We know that many of you dear brothers and sisters are coping
with very difficult challenges day after day
in this cruel wicked world.
Such challenges can make it difficult for you to feel
like a lamb safe and secure in the bosom of our shepherd.
Please be assured that Jehovah is fully aware
of every challenge you face.
Why can you be so sure?
Let's read what David, the writer of Psalm 23, verse 4 says,
Though I walk in the valley of deep shadow,
I fear no harm.
For you are with me, your rod and your staff reassure me.
Much like a physical valley located deep in the shadows of nearby mountains,
a figurative valley can be used to describe a low point in one's life
when we're feeling down, gloomy, or in a dark place.
When David wrote this Psalm, he was feeling down at a low point in his life.
Well, what valley of deep shadow are you currently going through?
Are you feeling overwhelmed with trying to provide for your family's needs?
Dealing with a serious health issue such as cancer?
Exhausted because you're caring for your mate or a parent with dementia?
Trying to cope with the death of a loved one?
Baddling feelings of loneliness, worthlessness, or anxiety?
Or facing persecution?
It's so difficult to remain positive when facing the darkest days of our life.
But there's a bright side.
What is that?
Jehovah is aware of the mountain-like obstacles that cause you to feel low
as if you were in a valley of deep shadow.
He not only sees your pain, but he's ready to come to your rescue,
lift you up with his strong arms and embrace you like that lamb in the picture.
Psalm 23 is one of the most well-known passages in the Bible
and beautifully describes the loving way that our shepherd Jehovah leads, protects,
and feeds his precious sheep.
As we consider these three ways that Jehovah cares for us,
look for the answers to the following questions.
What does Jehovah do?
How does he do it?
And what do you need to do?
The first way.
Our shepherd leads us.
At Psalm 231, the theme of our discussion,
David expressed with full confidence,
Jehovah is my shepherd.
I will lack nothing.
As a young man, David proved to be a capable shepherd
who tenderly cared for and protected his entire flock
and cared for the specific needs of each sheep.
Here in Psalm 23, David portrays himself not as a shepherd,
but as a humble sheep under the loving care of Jehovah,
affectionately calling him my shepherd.
During his lifetime, David experienced many highs and lows,
peaks, valleys, joys, and disappointments.
But whatever value of deep shadow he faced,
David always relied on his shepherd to lead him to safety
and provide exactly what he needed when he needed it.
With complete trust and confidence, he said,
I will lack nothing.
No wonder Psalm 23 has been called a psalm of assurance or trust.
What does our shepherd do?
Verses 2 and 3 answer.
In grassy pastures, he makes me lie down.
He leads me to well-watered resting places.
He refreshes me.
He leads me in the paths of righteousness for the sake of his name.
The watchtower once explained, David here paints a scene of
contentment, refreshment, and security.
Jehovah leads us to grassy pastures and tranquil waters.
The Hebrew word rendered pastures can mean pleasant place.
If we humbly follow our shepherd,
he will lead us to a pleasant place where we can feel secure
and have peace of mind, even when we're going through a valley of deep shadow.
How does Jehovah lead us?
By means of his word, he teaches us how to make wise decisions
that lead to paths of righteousness,
a life course that is pleasing to him and brings us happiness.
He sets a course and a pace that we're able to follow,
never expecting us to do more than we're able.
Jehovah also leads us by means of undershepherds, the elders,
who tenderly care for us spiritually, emotionally, and physically,
so that we will lack nothing.
What do you need to do?
If you're going through a valley of deep shadow,
search our many publications for specific Bible principles
and helpful advice that can shed light on your present circumstances
and provide practical ways to overcome difficulties
or give you the patience to endure.
Many find encouragement and comfort watching JW Broadcasting.
In fact, one sister said,
JW Broadcasting has helped me to be more positive.
When I get lonely or discouraged,
I find an encouraging talk or a morning worship program to watch.
Are you benefiting from the monthly broadcasts, videos, and uplifting songs?
The second way, our shepherd protects us.
Let's read the second half of verse four.
Your rod and your staff reassure me.
David used a shepherd's rod and staff to illustrate Jehovah's protective care.
Ancient shepherds used a rod to protect their sheep from predators,
such as lions, bears, wolves, and snakes.
They also used a staff to guide their sheep, gently nudging them in the right direction.
Interestingly, some staffs had a hook at the end of the long stick
that helped them as a shepherd gently draw back a sheep, strain, or nibbling into danger,
guiding them back to the protection of the flock.
The sheep certainly did not fear that the shepherd would use his rod or staff to beat them.
What does Jehovah do?
Our loving shepherd stands ready to use his figure of rod and staff to warn
and protect us from predators seeking to harm us,
especially from Satan, who in the Bible is portrayed as a vicious lion and a cunning serpent.
Jehovah also has appointed elders in the congregation to warn and protect us from harmful influences
and from taking a dangerous path in this wicked world.
No doubt, you're filled with heartfelt appreciation and are comforted knowing
that Jehovah is always on the lookout to use his figure of rod and staff to warn and protect us,
not to beat us.
If you strayed or nibbled away from the flock for whatever reason,
please listen to Jehovah as he speaks to you through his written word, the Bible, and our brotherhood.
Humbly follow the gentle nudging to lead you back to the safety of the congregation,
where you'll enjoy lush, grassy pastures and refreshing well-watered resting places.
Elders, you are entrusted with a privilege, but a heavy responsibility to protect Jehovah's precious sheep,
whom he's placed under your care.
We take this opportunity to express our sincere appreciation for those of you who use your figure of rod and staff
to protect the sheep, never making them feel beaten down, but truly loved and appreciated.
How does Jehovah protect us?
He protects us as a group or flock.
Satan will never succeed in wiping Jehovah's sheep from the earth.
Jehovah also protects each sheep individually.
How?
Most important, he protects us spiritually.
The draw close to Jehovah book explains,
our loving God protects us from spiritual harm by equipping us with what we need in order to endure trials
and to safeguard our relationship with him.
Jehovah thus works to preserve our life, not just for a few short years, but for eternity.
How reassuring that Jehovah makes sure that we have everything we need so that we will in effect lack nothing?
What do you need to do?
Take full advantage of the many provisions Jehovah makes available to protect us spiritually.
Prayer, fellow worshippers, and timely spiritual food, which we'll discuss next.
The third way.
Our shepherd feeds us.
Psalm 23 verses 5 and 6 reassures us,
you prepare a table for me before my enemies.
You refresh my head with oil.
My cup is well filled.
Surely goodness and loyal love will pursue me all the days of my life,
and I will dwell in the house of Jehovah for all my days.
What does Jehovah do?
David now describes our shepherd as a generous host,
who spreads before us his invited guests delicious and nutritious food and drink in great abundance.
How does Jehovah feed us?
Through the Faithland Discrete Slave, Jehovah gives us timely publications,
as well as rich spiritual programs at our meetings, assemblies, conventions,
JW broadcasting, governing body updates,
along with encouraging songs and videos, and so much more.
Truly, the slave is giving us food at the proper time,
what we need when we need it.
We certainly lack nothing spiritually.
What do you need to do?
Show your appreciation for the food the slave provides by eating it
and never being fussy, picky, or selective in your eating habits.
Remember, the Bible and Bible-based publications are ways that Jehovah speaks to us
in effect saying, this is the way, walk in it, my precious sheep.
As we read the Bible and meditate on the verses that touch our heart,
we'll be better equipped to correct any faulty thinking that could lead us
to dark feelings of anxiety, loneliness, worthlessness, anger, or resentment.
Like David, be determined to dwell in the house of Jehovah for all your days.
Continue attending our upbuilding meetings, assemblies, and conventions
where we receive spiritual nourishment and protection.
A sister who has traversed various valleys of deep shadow
expressed what helps her to stay focused and keep on enduring.
She said,
depressive thoughts are not trustworthy.
They are the product of a treacherous heart that distorts our thinking abilities.
But because I trust Jehovah completely, each Bible verse proves to be
like a solid stepping stone that enables me to gradually climb out of my many valleys of deep shadow.
Our sister expressed so well how we feel about our loving shepherd
who promises to help us successfully navigate through any valley of deep shadow.
Isn't this a beautiful picture of a shepherd with his sheep?
It's a door in the governing body conference room since the 1970s.
It's a visual reminder of the importance of their work as shepherds.
Brother Loach, a member of the governing body since 1994,
recently explained what this inspiring painting has meant to him throughout the decades.
Enjoy the following video segment.
His painting in the governing body conference room shows the shepherd and his sheep
and the shepherd is caring for the sheep and they feel obviously comfortable and protected.
And they do that despite, as you can see in the background, stormy weather.
But the sheep feel just fine.
In connection with the application in the Bible,
the Bible shows that Jehovah God is a shepherd and cares for us as his sheep.
But so is Jesus Christ. He is called the fine shepherd.
And what are shepherds to do? Well, shepherds lead the sheep, feed the sheep,
shepherds protect the sheep, but then shepherds also care for injured or ailing sheep.
But the fact is that all of God's people are sheep.
And so we have the privilege to follow the lead of Jehovah and Jesus and the elders
and work together in unity. At the governing body meeting,
we sometimes look at the picture and we try to apply what is implied in the painting
to our work with the congregations and the worldwide flock.
Thank you, brother Loach, for sharing those encouraging comments with us.
How reassuring it is to know that our loving shepherds on the governing body
take their responsibility to lead, protect, and feed you, me,
and all of Jehovah's precious sheep very seriously.
May we all continue to humbly and obediently follow their lead
as we follow closely the lead of our great shepherd Jehovah
and in the footsteps of our fine shepherd and King Jesus.
Never forget that Jehovah is not just our shepherd, he is your shepherd,
he is my shepherd, with Jehovah our shepherd leading, protecting, and feeding us.
We can face a future with complete confidence and echo the words that David used to introduce
this beautiful and reassuring psalm, the words contained at Psalm 23.
Jehovah is my shepherd, I will lack nothing.
One of the many valleys of deep shadow that we can pass through is war.
Along with physical and emotional strain, it can threaten our loyalty to God's kingdom.
How can we overcome fear and stand with Jehovah?
The following dramatization takes us into the heart of a conflict
and is based on the real life experiences of some of our brothers and sisters.
Though I walk in the valley of deep shadow, I fear no harm for you are with me.
Those words felt new when the fighting started again.
But the family that took us in was a gift from Jehovah,
while we waited for the trains to start running again.
We tried our best to help others.
They're nearly finished, I'm going to go help them clean up.
Luda.
Yaki.
I know her from school.
This is my brother Pablo, he protects this whole area.
I'm surprised you're still here.
You too.
Why? I stayed to help the fight.
Where else would I be?
Oh, no, I just meant...
This is our home.
Everybody has to do their part to support the war.
I'm...
You're what?
Jesus Jehovah.
They don't care about the country.
Oh, the cowards.
Your people should be shot.
Let's go.
I just froze.
Fear is natural.
We all get afraid.
But let's look at what Jesus told us.
However, when they hand you over,
do not become anxious about how or what you are to speak.
For what you are to speak will be given you in that hour.
So, let's talk about what you can say,
because when you have Jehovah's thoughts in here,
you will always give you the words when you need them.
Today is the day we'll try to leave.
We have brothers and sisters waiting for us.
After all these weeks, it may finally happen.
At your tickets, an ID ready.
One at a time.
Go ahead, I'm right behind you.
Leaving the country?
Yes.
Me, my mother and my grandma are leaving.
We're giving priority to the week and sick.
And there's a lot you can do here.
Don't you care about your country?
I respect our country, but I am loyal to God.
I support God's kingdom first.
I think we make you stay.
Go back.
Hold on.
God's kingdom?
Did you say God's kingdom?
My father, he was one of you.
I don't agree with your beliefs.
But I know you're good people.
So you and your family get on the train.
Do not become anxious.
For what you are to speak will be given you.
I didn't know how Jehovah would do it.
But I put my trust in him.
And he showed me that I have nothing to fear.
Our shepherd has promised to give us the right words at the right time.
Inscribe his thoughts on your heart now before the trial.
And you'll have nothing to fear.
As Yerg began to study the Bible with Jehovah's Witnesses,
God's thoughts were inscribed on his heart.
He needed to make a choice, serving the army, or serve God.
How would he find the strength to completely change his life?
Let's see.
I was born in the northern of Germany.
I didn't have a very good relationship to my father,
because he drank a lot.
And very often he was mean to me.
On the other hand, my mother really, she was kind, lovely.
And I can tell you, I love my mother from the bottom of my heart.
One day, the doctors diagnosed it that she has cancer.
And only a few days later, she died, and she was gone.
And this was for me, horrible, I tell you.
I feel completely empty, no hope, angry.
I couldn't understand, really, I couldn't get it.
How a God can be so painful to others,
and take the best of what I had in my life, just take it away.
I hate everything around me.
I will never trust anyone.
And especially, I lost also the trust completely in God.
And therefore, I decide to go to the German Air Force.
It starts with a basic training.
So the ideas we have to follow orders,
doesn't matter what happens.
So a special training was also hand-to-hand combat.
And this gives you a lot of confidence.
You're saying nobody can hurt you once again.
You feel very strong.
I remember some situation we were outside in the woods,
and this was part of a survival training.
I felt inextractible and were very proud of myself.
So a little later, on my military career,
I was working with a missile launch crew.
One day, I realized that just with one launch of this missile,
I could be responsible for to kill thousands of people.
When all this comes to my mind,
I start to think, is it possible there is a God existing?
And when so, how would he think about my work what I'm doing here?
There was in my family my aunt,
and once she told me,
Dear, if someday you will like to know something more about God about the Bible,
you have to contact Jehovah's Witnesses.
They know exactly what is the prophecy from the Bible,
and this can give you hope.
And from there on, I studied the Bible,
and also I came to the meetings from them.
So in one meeting, my wife, Alvia, sitting beside me,
I was sure I have to make a big change.
To be together with these people who loves Jehovah God,
and I am still working for the German Air Force.
I decided, officially,
refuse the military service because my country was in buzz on me.
I felt very confident that this was the right decision to do.
So at that core day,
and this was surprising for me,
they told me that my request will be rejected.
If I refuse to go on with my military service,
I will be sent to prison.
I really didn't know what to do.
And then I saw that Jehovah took over.
My side commander told me,
Do you know what?
I have a solution for you.
You can appeal the court decision.
He offered me an office job.
So the only thing I have to do was a paperwork,
and a shift from eight hours.
I was finished after two hours.
I was done with this.
Six months.
Five days a week.
Six hours a day.
I was just starting and studying.
I felt not only that I drove closer to Jehovah.
I also was convinced now that in the past time,
I was just relying on myself.
I trust only me.
But now I got the opportunity to lay everything
what I needed to Jehovah.
Evie and I, we got really deeply discussions.
I am prison, and she alone.
I was wondering how she could take care on herself.
If I have to go to prison,
we still, we stick to Jehovah and to his ways.
So if the court arrived,
I asked Jehovah,
please Jehovah, give me the strength,
and also the wisdom and the right words
to bring glory fire on his name.
After the hearing,
the providing judge told me,
when the decision is made,
it will be final.
So back in my unit,
the next days, they were horrible.
One day, my side commander came in into my office,
and he got a very, very serious face.
Wow.
I knew what was coming up.
I was seeing me already behind the bars.
Then surprising, he told me,
hey, this is a set news for me.
The decision is made.
You are free to go.
And I will lose my best officer what I have.
In this moment,
well, I remember the tears comes out.
I couldn't hide it back.
And I was so thankful to Jehovah,
and I felt really,
as the best decision I made
to stick to Jehovah,
and not to man.
So Elvian I,
we dedicated our life,
completely to Jehovah,
and now, because the privilege to serve him,
almost 50 years together.
The scripture,
at Isaiah 40,
verses 10 and 11,
comes really to my mind.
Jehovah will come with power,
like a shepherd,
he will care for his flock,
but certainly he did.
It doesn't matter what Satan ever brings to you.
This relationship with Jehovah
leads always to success.
As Brother Hoekker gradually progressed spiritually,
he made decisions to match God's standards.
He specifically asked Jehovah
for the power to follow through on his decisions.
And we're happy that with time,
and Jehovah's help,
he was able to bring his life in harmony
with Jehovah's standards.
But what if our choice is not about right,
or wrong?
What if it's more about choosing from many options?
In this episode of Lessons from the Watchtower,
see how these young people were able to use Bible principles
when choosing employment.
When I first started having some health problems,
my biggest concern was my goals.
With health situations,
it's easy to get overwhelmed.
I had to find a part-time job
that is agreeable to my pioneering schedule
and to my energy levels.
I was offered after high school the opportunity
to attend a prestigious university for no cost.
But Jehovah invites you to rely on him,
not to rely on yourself.
Growing up, my family didn't have a lot materially.
It caused me to have a tendency
to want to rely on myself instead of Jehovah.
I realized that I needed to have more trust in Jehovah,
and that was going to require working on my faith.
These relates were given a wonderful provision from Jehovah
when they were hungry in a need of food of mana,
and they had to show contentment
throughout the whole 40 years of them being in the wilderness.
It's not ideal to have to cut back on things
for financial reasons,
but being okay with it and adapting to it
that shows Jehovah that we're content
with what he's given us,
and it helps us to be able to enjoy life
and enjoy our full-time ministry that way.
I appreciated David's example
because he stuck to Jehovah through several trials,
and each time he saw Jehovah's hand,
and I thought that must have impressed on him,
the importance of relying on Jehovah,
and it probably helped him to have faith
that Jehovah was going to be there again the next time.
We were pioneering in our hometown.
We had everything we needed.
I was set up with a job where I could work three days a week,
and it was the perfect pioneer job,
but we wanted something more,
so we decided to move where the need was greater
in the Chinese field.
I decided to find a part-time job
that provided the means necessary
to pay for things like food and clothing,
but really it was going to provide me with an opportunity
to focus on that service to Jehovah.
After some time, I realized that the job I had originally taken
was not providing what I needed anymore.
A change was necessary.
So another opportunity came up
to pursue higher education.
While I was considering my options
a friend recommended a job
that required a little bit of vocational training,
but would pay to cover my expenses.
Psalm 23 and verse 1 has absolutely been true for us.
There's never been a moment where we went hungry.
There's never been a moment where we didn't have what we needed.
And challenges have come up.
He's always led us through those challenges
and helped us to overcome.
I was able to find a way to work remotely from home
so I could control my energy level
and I could control my own schedule.
Ministry has been such a comfort
since a spare back as I can remember
for any child we face.
Just going in service, we always come home smiling.
For us, it was always, if you can do it, do it
because it will make you happy and will make life more enjoyable.
Working at the Assembly Hall is an enormous privilege.
It's great to work in Jehovah's organization
and see how it works to receive training.
And at the same time, it's an opportunity
to meet even more people who are all putting Jehovah first.
Looking back on it, I realized that Jehovah gave us that time
to work for him so that he could show his power to us
in a way that was undeniable.
When this watchtower came out, I said,
everything is true.
Every single principle,
the taste and see that Jehovah is good
and Jehovah is my shepherd, I'll lack nothing.
It's all true.
My experience, my life, has been a testimony to that.
These young ones have lives filled with purpose and joy
and are truly lacking nothing good.
And did you notice how they worked in harmony with their prayers?
Brother Let discussed specific ways
we can work with Jehovah's hand
in this morning worship program.
The theme for this discussion
is Jehovah's hand is awe-inspiring.
The human hand is an amazing creation.
It enables us to apply the power of our arm
in very dexterous and versatile ways.
We can swing a sledgehammer.
We can thread a tiny sewing needle.
The human hand is far superior to any animal's hand.
One advantage, only humans have an opposing thumb
that can easily touch our four other fingers.
To illustrate the human hand superiority,
imagine an ape whose hand you see here,
trying to take a pin and precisely sign his name,
or trying to throw a curveball with a baseball.
But as amazing as the human hand is,
Jehovah's hand is far more amazing.
In fact, it is awe-inspiring.
But what is Jehovah's hand?
Well, here's one definition.
Jehovah's hand is his ability to apply the great power
of his Holy Spirit in various ways.
In fact, let's discuss four examples
of Jehovah using his awe-inspiring hand
to apply the great power of his Holy Spirit.
And then, after we discuss each one,
we'll comment just briefly on how we can work in harmony
with this specific use of Jehovah's hand.
Now, let's go to Proverbs 21.
Today's scripture text, let's read it again.
Proverbs 211, a king's heart is like streams of water
in Jehovah's hand.
He directs it wherever he pleases.
Now, what is this telling as well?
In order to accomplish his will,
Jehovah can maneuver the heart
of any government official
to do something or not do something.
Now, here's one Bible example.
Persian king artiser Z's
granted all of Ezra's requests.
Amazingly, he did this.
About going to Jerusalem and advancing pure worship.
Well, what motivated the king's heart to do this?
Ezra knew whether credit belonged.
At Ezra 727, he said,
may Jehovah be praised?
Who put it into the heart of the king
to beautify the house of Jehovah in Jerusalem?
Now, that's just one Bible example of many
that could be discussed.
But now, a question,
how can we work in harmony
with this use of Jehovah's hand?
Well, for one thing,
we can pray,
if it be Jehovah's will,
that he maneuver the hearts
of government officials
to make decisions
that will benefit Jehovah's people.
We can also pray for Jehovah
to move the hearts of officials
to treat our imprisoned brothers kindly.
And that's in harmony with Hebrews 13-3,
with beautiful scripture,
keep in mind those in prison,
as though you were imprisoned with them.
Isn't that interesting?
Keep in mind those in prison,
as though you were imprisoned with them.
Now, let's go to Isaiah 41,
and we'll get our second example
of how Jehovah can use his hand.
Isaiah 41, verse 10,
the B part, Jehovah says,
I will really hold on to you
with my right hand of righteousness.
Then look at verse 13,
for I, Jehovah your God,
am grasping your right hand.
The one saying to you,
do not be afraid,
I will help you.
Now, interestingly,
this scripture is not talking about Jehovah,
taking his right hand
and grabbing our left hand,
as would be true in walking side-by-side,
but rather,
Jehovah takes his right hand,
grabs our right hand,
as would be true,
of Jehovah pulling us up
and out of a pit.
So what do we learn from this,
that Jehovah can rescue us
from any situation,
no matter how hopeless,
how desperate it might seem.
But now, a question,
how can we work in harmony
with this specific use of Jehovah's hand?
Well, for one thing,
we can supplicate Jehovah
to rescue us
in time of test trial temptation.
And then,
we can avail ourselves
of the help that comes our way,
in effect reaching out with our right hand
and grasping Jehovah's right hand.
But now, let's go to Psalm 145,
our third example,
Psalm 145,
verse number 16 of Jehovah,
it says,
you open your hand
and satisfy the desire
of every living thing.
Now, what is this telling us?
Well, Jehovah can use his hand
to express tremendous generosity.
It's true,
this scripture will be completely fulfilled
in the New World,
but even now,
Jehovah freely uses his hand
to express generosity.
He is the most magnanimous giver
in the universe.
Nothing stingy
or tightfisted about Jehovah.
He gives emotionally,
he gives materially,
especially spiritually.
The ground we walk on,
the food we eat,
the air we breathe,
all come from Jehovah.
That makes me think of the atheist
who arrogantly said,
I don't need God.
I don't need anybody.
I don't need anything.
And then he took a deep breath,
how short-sighted indeed.
But now our question is,
how can we work in harmony
with this use of Jehovah's hand?
Well, by being generous toward others,
being willing to give
unstentingly of our time,
energy resources.
And think about this,
if we are close-fisted with others,
not only are we not
imitating our generous God,
as beloved children,
but Jehovah can't put anything
in our hand.
On the other hand,
if we're open-handed,
with others,
now Jehovah can't put something
in our hand.
Well, let's identify one more way
Jehovah uses his hand.
Let's go to Exodus chapter 15,
please.
And verse 6,
the B part.
Your right hand,
O Jehovah,
can shatter an enemy.
What do we learn?
He reminds us of how many times
in the past Jehovah has used his hand
to smash to irreparable pieces
his enemies.
And it assures us
he will do so
in an even more all-inspiring way
in the near future,
during the Great Tribulation.
Jehovah will use his hand
to maneuver many of the wicked,
to actually use their physical hands
to slaughter each other.
And then he will use his hand
to wheel the forces of nature,
to use the immortal Christ,
the immortal 144,000,
the mighty angels,
he will use them
to sweep away,
sweep out of existence,
the rest of the wicked,
along with this entire wicked system.
How can we work in harmony
with this use of Jehovah's hand?
Well, one way, very important,
we can work hard
to help people
take a stand with Jehovah,
learn the truth,
so they don't have to be removed
by Jehovah's all-mighty hand.
And this brings great delight
to Jehovah when we do this,
because Jehovah takes no delight
and even the death of the wicked.
But what he takes delight in
is that someone wicked turns back
from his way
and keeps living.
Well, we have now discussed four ways
Jehovah can use his all-inspiring hand,
maneuver government officials,
according to his will,
rescue his people,
give generously,
shatter his enemies.
Now, the Bible does describe many other ways
Jehovah uses his hand,
so why not make identifying
some of these other ways
a future study project?
I'll give you a little bit of homework.
But may all of us
be determined
to use our physical
and figurative hand
to always work in harmony
with Jehovah's all-inspiring hand.
Jehovah's hand
truly is all-inspiring.
It is done and will do amazing things.
It will lead us to tranquil waters,
even if our lives feel like a raging sea.
This month's music video
is an uplifting reminder
of the peace we can have now
thanks to our shepherd.
I open my eyes
to there's nothing to fear
and everyone is...
Soon will come the day
when every one of Jehovah's sheep
will experience goodness all their days.
Until then,
what must we do?
Stay in the shepherd's warm embrace.
In his arms,
he protects us from dangers,
small and large.
In his pastures,
he feeds us nourishing
spiritual food,
so we have the strength to make a stand.
With his hand,
he gives generously,
so we lack nothing good.
Before we conclude,
let's visit Lichtenstein,
located between Switzerland
and Austria.
It may be long in name,
but it's small in size.
As its sixth smallest country
in the world,
it has a population of just
over 39,000 people.
Despite being flanked
by snowy mountains on the east
and south,
the cities in the valleys below
enjoy a comfortable climate
with a warm air called
Fernwinds,
flowing downward from the summits.
If you're interested
in trekking the rugged terrain,
be sure to have a hearty meal beforehand.
You can try Rebel,
a traditional dish
made with cornmeal,
served with applesauce,
making it a filling and hearty snack.
The 95 publishers here
trek the country
and dispense
and they also make a small
journey to Switzerland for their
meetings.
The closest kingdom hall is right
along the border.
Although most of the population
is Roman Catholic,
our brothers still average
26 Bible studies.
But the path to preaching
has not always been smooth.
Our history of preaching
is full of uphill battles.
Starting in the 1920s,
our literature,
whether it was from house to house
or even by letter.
At one point,
all the publishers preaching
in the country were arrested
and detained on a bus.
What did they do?
They sang out to Jehovah,
undeterred,
and with dictators rising to power
in the 1930s,
they courageously used the pamphlet
fascism or freedom.
They were unstoppable.
Like the warm winds
blowing in from the mountains,
the love of our brothers
and sisters can be felt
everywhere.
It's seen in their regular family
worship evenings,
before and after the meetings,
and in their singing to Jehovah.
And they wish to send that love
to you, the Worldwide Brotherhood.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah's Witnesses,
the Worldwide Brotherhood.